# Working on XDE

## Prerequisites

- Gulp CLI: We use Gulp 4, which requires the 4.0 branch of gulp-cli. Install this with `npm install -g gulpjs/gulp-cli#4.0`. It is compatible with Gulp 3 in case you have other projects with Gulpfiles.

Check out this repository and run `npm install`.

## Running XDE

Run `gulp`, which will compile the JavaScript, set up a file watcher to continuously build if you make changes, and launch XDE.

When you make changes to files under `src`, the watcher will compile the changed files and place them under `build`. Refresh XDE with Cmd+R to load the latest code.

## Directory Structure

The entry point of the app is `build/main.js`. The contents of the `build` directory are generated by a Gulp task that runs Babel on the files under `src`. We don't commit the `build` directory to Git but we do distribute it with the packaged app.

The entry point loads `web/index.html` in the Chromium instance. This is a normal HTML page except that its JavaScript has access to Node's APIs and can call `require()`. It mounts the root React component whose source code is under the `build` directory.


## To package up for distribution:

1. Make sure you are using Node v4.1.1, which matches the version of Node that Electron uses.

  ```sh
  nvm use v4.1.1
  rm -rf node_modules
  npm install
  ```

  The reason for this is that the Chokidar stuff breaks on some later versions of Node, and some native modules fail to build or are weird.

2. Make sure you are on the right branch

    Whatever that is

3. Run `npm run-script package`

  This will run electron-packager and create a .app and then also zip that up and create a .zip of the .app

  These will appear in the folder "Exponent XDE-darwin-x64"

4. Test the .app to make sure it works

    This is dumb but you have to move it out of the directory its put in because
    otherwise it searches for node_modules/ in xde/ and gets confused and breaks

### To create a signed version of the app

1. Make sure you have the DeveloperIDApplication.p12 certificate installed

    It's in Charlie's Dropbox if you need it.

    Make sure it gets installed in the login keychain, NOT the system keychain.

2. run `npm run-script signed-package`

3. Test the .app to make sure it works

    This is dumb but you have to move it out of the directory its put in because
    otherwise it searches for node_modules/ in xde/ and gets confused and breaks

4. Create a git tag called vX.Y.Z in XDE, not universe. Push the tag to github.

5. Go to github and click on "Draft a new release". Select the tag you just pushed.
   Title should be same as tag name. Write a short changelog. Make sure to drag
   the .zip file into the release attachments. Wait for upload and publish release.
